# Admin-Dashboard

Begin: June 10, 2022
Submitted: June 18, 2022


Title: Admin Dashboard

Type: Project for The Odin Project


Description:

  My goal for this project was to make a temporary portfolio since the 'portfolio project' is later in the course. This 'Admin Dashboard' webpage displays the projects that I have completed so far while following The Odin Project (TOP). For this reason, I made the webpage as responsive as possible with a minimal use of @media queries.


The following features are functional:

  1. Searchbar - Type, find, highlight, and go to the content after clicking or pressing 'Enter.' Pressing 'Enter' will go to the first result.

  2. Light / Dark Mode - Click the icons to swap icon positions and change color scheme.

  3. Notification bell - This does nothing actually except move left and right like a 'jiggled' bell.

  4. The eye icon and the 'fork' icon will open the live page and the github page, respectively.

  5. The list on the right will lead to project guidelines in the 'Upcoming projects' section and my thesis and CV in the 'pre-TOP' section. 

  6. The 'Cheatsheets' will lead to some useful resources. 

  ALL functional features use a 'pointer' cursor. The non-functional <a> (e.g., left-side list, New, Upload, Share, and profile picture) use a 'not-allowed' cursor. 


New skills practiced:

  1. CSS: clamp(), max(), min() - Wow! These are powerful. I attempted to use them on the previous project, but this time I learned just how useful these can be.

  2. Light & Dark color schemes - This was my first time experimenting with color schemes. Using some vanilla javascript and custom CSS variables, I was able to create two color schemes. 

  3. Searchbar - I spent a lot of time on the searchbar feature. I wanted to try the highligting feature when typing a letter into the searchhbar, using regex to match, split the textContent, add a <span>, and put them back together. I also used scrollIntoView() in javascript to ..scroll the element into view. 

  4. SVGs - I made a few SVGs: the sun, the moon, the bell, the rice hat logo (from a previous project), and the magnifying glass in the searchbar label. The rest of the icons are from materialdesignicons.com. 

  5. flex-basis - I found this to be especially useful for once. Specifically, when the the page is resizing, it keeps the desired element (#right-column) on the same line for longer before wrapping to the next line. 

  6. First-time use of CSS elements: cursor, text-transform, 'min-content' for grid-template-rows, transform: perspective, and transform: rotate.

  7. Frist-time use of HTML element: <aside>, <section>, <article>, and target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" in the <a> element to open in new tab.

    Note: SVG icons take up a LOT of space in the HTML file.

  8. Javascript - Adding an event listener to document and using !HTMLElement.contains() is effective as an alternative to blur(). 

  9. Font - The font (i.e., Saigon sans) was downloaded form fontlibrary.org and generated by fontsquirrel.com.


Note: For one element, given a display: flex and flex-direction: row, the align-items was backwards. Flex-start made the child go to the bottom and flex-end made the child go to the top. Eventually I realized that the padding of the element was bigger than the height, making the flex'box' more like a flat line. 

Note 2: Not sure if I used too many flexbox/grid. 